[{"title":"Detect notebook runtime errors with catchAll((cellName, reason) => {...})","description":"<span style=\"font-size: 300px; padding-left: 100px\">🚨</span> catchAll registers a callback that will be informed of any uncaught cell errors in the notebook. Usage: note Only the variables present when catchAll is called will be tracked, and new cells created afterwards will not be tracked. You can pass an invalidation promise as the 2nd argument to clean up the observers, this is needed if you expect to be calling catchAll more than once. Thanks @mootari/access-runtime This notebook operates upon a hacks"},{"title":"notebookSnapshot()","description":"This returns an array of the cell states now Usage: Thanks @mootari/access-runtime This notebook operates upon a hacks developed by @mootari and @bryangingechen. Read more in the dependency link 👇 Fixing for edge cases The trick used to discover which module is the current notebook can break with some modules. You can provide a known variable as the first parameter to aid detection of a particular notebook, but it's not needed for most usecases Demo look its this notebook's snapshot! If you click refresh,"},{"title":"Hello, Ruffle!","description":"From github.com/ruffle-rs/ruffle: Ruffle is an Adobe Flash Player emulator written in the Rust programming language. Ruffle targets both the desktop and the web using WebAssembly. This notebook implements a download progress which is still missing in Ruffle. For a list of known working SWF files see Test SWFs. For more details see Using Ruffle. Instructions Import the helper: Load a URL: Note that remote URLs must be CORS enabled. Example Select a demo file or provide a custom URL. API"},{"title":"Drawing on canvas","description":"A minimal cross-device (mouse, touch, stylus), multi-touch (use more fingers), pressure sensitive (use a stylus) drawing example. This is intentionally quite bare-boned. For a prettier version, I’d recommend https://github.com/szimek/signature_pad."},{"title":"Seamless chaining of interrupted transitions with polynomials","description":"By using polynomials, we can create transitions that can be chained seamlessly, even when they are interrupted mid-transition. Below is an example with one interrupted transition followed by a full transition. If you use ` ` to create an easing function `f1` for a transition, and this transition is interrupted at `t`, you can create a seamlessly continuing easing function `f2` with Or, if you want to control the end slope (default is 0): Here's an example of the concept in action. Click the chart to start a"},{"title":"Example Custom Embed","description":"This provides a URL with social tags, analytics but the implementation is drawn from an Observable notebook The webserver is a serverless cell endpoint  that emits cache-control headers to utilize a CDN. You can put a custom domain over it using Netlify rewrite rules if you like (dev.to article)."},{"title":"Two-Tone Pseudo Color Scales with Observable Plot & Vega-Lite","description":"Numeric values from an univariate continuous distribution can be visually encoded as colors (besides other channels like position, length, angle, area, etc.). There are different types of color scales available. Here, we take a look at a rather uncommon color scale, which is mapping a numeric value to two colors and adding also an encoding in length: A two-tone pseudo color scale introduced in paper Two-Tone Pseudo Coloring: Compact Visualization for One-Dimensional Data in 2005. The goal of two-tone colori"},{"title":"Recreating Östling’s regression visualizations","description":"Robert Östling is a professor of economics at the Stockholm School of Economics. The tweet below is the first in a thread of wonderful visualizations illustrating various properties of regression lines. I’ve recreated them below (using Fil’s Plot wrapper of Harry Stevens’ D3 regression library). I have no deep understanding of this, so errors are likelier in mine than in Östling’s. The headings quote Östling’s tweets; each letter links to the original tweet. A. “This simple one I use over and over again to"},null,{"title":"Hello Polygon Morphing","description":"For animations that morph between pairs of shapes we can use the Flubber library to do the hard work of calculating the intermediate shapes that blend from one shape to another. This page shows how this may be used to create some simple shape-based animated transitions. Start shapes We start with a set of polygon shapes. Some are simple, single polygons ('bird' and 'house'), others comprise multiple polygons ('triangles') or geo-polygons ('londonCoords'). For convenience, all shapes are scaled to fit within"},{"title":"Endless Progress","description":"Feel productive without lifting a finger."},{"title":"Shape interpolations with flubber","description":"The goal of the Flubber js libraryis to provide a best-guess interpolation for any two arbitrary shapes (or collections of shapes) that results in a reasonably smooth animation, without overthinking it. Let's explore it a little bit. 1. path to path 2. path to multi-polygon path 3. path to circle 4. path to rectangle 5. transitions See d3.transition and d3.ease 6. Let's use geojsons Dependencies"},{"title":"Wordle, 15 Million Tweets Later","description":"Since the start of the year, the online word game Wordle has overtaken “crossword” (by 10x), “olympics” (2x) and even “covid” (1.5x) in Google Trends data. News outlets cover the game down to each day’s answer, and it apparently helped end a hostage situation in Illinois. The New York Times recently purchased Wordle for a “low seven-figures” sum. First created in June 2021 and made public in October 2021, it’s addicting by nature: one game a day with a good difficulty curve — usually winnable in six tries,"},{"title":"Entropy is Easy","description":"Recently, a very popular YouTube video explained how to use the concept of Entropy to solve Wordle. The math for Entropy is actually quite simple, but staring at an equation doesn't quite do the concept intuitive justice. So I've taken the time to make a visual showing the concept for the binary (two class) case! Click the add/remove buttons below to see how easy it is yourself!: The more 'pure' a given set is (i.e. the more certainty in the data), the lower the entropy. The less 'pure', (i.e. the more unce"},{"title":"Posicionamento em CSS - parte 1","description":"A propriedade display do css serve para dar instruções ao navegador de como queremos posicionar um elemento. Vamos entender melhor sobre posicionamento, usando as seguintes opções de display display: inline e display: inline-block display: block display: flex Antes de começar: Para criar uma versão dessa página na sua própria conta, clique no menu do topo da página e na opção FORK (veja imagem) Tome nota das dúvidas para tirar em sala image@1.png Você poderá editar os blocos de código dessa página de acordo"},{"title":"Dota2 TI10 Pick/Ban Heatmap","description":"The International, often abbreviated as TI, is an annual tournament of Dota2 organized by Valve. And Dota2 is one of the most popular multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) game in the world. This visualization shows the pick/ban from 194 matches on The International 2021 (TI10). Pick Heatmap Ban Heatmap Data Dependency"},{"title":"Historical boundaries","description":"This dataset of historical boundaries, curated by André Ourednik, is certainly better than the “GIS Resources for the Classroom” I have used before. To contribute: github.com/aourednik/historical-basemaps."},{"title":"Perceptually uniform color models and their implications","description":"This notebook was created as a learning exercise to teach myself about color theory. I have interleaved some lightly altered prose from a variety of sources which I found informative, which I have made a best attempt to cite in the References section at the end of the notebook. I would like to extend my thanks to the cited authors for their work. Munsell color system Albert Munsell, an artist and professor of art at the Massachusetts Normal Art School wanted to create a \"rational way to describe color\" that"}]